hi I'm Alison poly and welcome to
Bellarmine University these students
behind me here are involved in
Bellarmine second degree nursing program
if you're someone who has no background
in nursing but you'd really like to
break into that field well you've come
to the right place
so come on follow me and I'll show you
what it's all about Belair means
accelerated nursing program is
attracting attention from students
across the country and here's why one
reason that people love this program
is that it's only one year traditional
nursing programs last several years and
even other accelerated programs across
the country take 15 to 24 months to
complete this program covers all the
same material while still allowing
students to finish their degrees quickly
I'm Julie Armstrong binax and I'm the
senior graduate admission officer that
works with all of our Nursing and Health
Sciences students here and one of the
programs that I recruit most heavily for
is the accelerated second degree nursing
program
my name is Dana McNeely I'm an assistant
professor of Nursing at Bellarmine I
have been faculty at Bellarmine since
January 2004 I've been a nurse since
1991 my name is dr. Carol Smith and I'm
an assistant professor of Nursing at the
Lansing School of Nursing and Health
Sciences at Bellarmine main reason I
chose this program is because it was one
year and I can just get through it
really quickly and because I've been in
school basically since I graduated him
of course
this fast pace can make it challenging
it's really intense it's very fast-paced
you're constantly learning a new way to
study for every class with seven week
sessions it goes by really quickly and
right when you feel like you're starting
to get a grip on what your teacher
expects of you and where you're going
and how you're being tested it's going
to change another reason that students
choose this program is that people can
enroll with all kinds of backgrounds
students come to bellman from all majors
and diverse first careers michael
Luckett is one such student coming here
with a degree in philosophy
it's been a huge adjustment that's for
sure but the prereq classes help you get
ready for that and in the beginning
we're all fumbling through things we're
all unsure about ourselves but we've
learned a study hard and now which will
come in time
Michelle is another student who has
diverse background having worked in the
food and beverage industry for about
five years before returning to school
it's hard to get used to being imported
kid again but it's neat because I think
everybody that's in the accelerated
program has gotten their degree and
they've been in the real world and so I
think there's a focus of knowing what
you want and what you want to get out of
it and that being enough to push you
through the program but the diversity
doesn't stop there students come from
all over the nation in even from other
countries students range from ages 21 to
65 with the average being about 32 years
old about half of them are married or in
committed relationships and many have
children although students in this
program are predominantly female male
students represent a growing population
of about 10 to 15 percent at first it's
intimidating but I was pleasantly
surprised I think in my first class
there were about eight guys in my first
class which I was very impressed by that
ratio and this diversity of all kinds is
paying off for the students the students
learn from each other and they can bring
their insights from their past life
experience into the classroom and into
the clinical settings our accelerated
graduates are very attractive employees
most of our local facilities regard them
in high esteem because they have such a
diverse background before they came into
nursing Bellman's accelerated program
also offers substantial clinical
experiences and the many hospitals
located in Louisville
especially the clinical is my favorite
part of the program I'm really learning
a lot just experiencing being in a
hospital and talking to patients and
educating them and treating them it's
actually really cool skill building
nursing courses require between 45 and
90 clinical hours for a total of 765
clinical hours across the program with
access to
outstanding hospitals like Norton Jewish
Baptists and others in the area the
students gain clinical experience in all
the major subspecialty areas we strive
for our students to have experiences in
completely different hospitals
completely different patient populations
but also out in the community as well
and in non acute care settings so again
when a student comes through our nursing
program they're to have clinical
experiences in a wide variety of
settings and that helps prepare you for
when you practice as a nurse I thought
it was going to be a lot of observation
and learning by proxy and you really
your your elbow-deep your first week we
saw patients everywhere from heart
failure to gunshot wounds to caring for
AIDS patients and cancer patients
Balaban is also home to some of the
latest technologies built for simulation
labs they have several medium fidelity
simulators on which students practice
and hone their skills students can take
blood pressure take a pulse in one
extremity listen to bowel and breathing
sounds and inject fluids the full-body
simulators come with a variety of wounds
and interchangeable parts they also have
two high fidelity simulators this is mr.
Johnson mr. Johnson breeze blinks and
talks with speakers and microphones in
his head
professors are able to interact with
students by talking for the patient
creating a very lifelike situation he
also comes with monitors that display
his heart and breathing rate just like a
real hospital monitor you can just
breathe normally simulation labs are
also equipped with cameras so that
instructors can observe students and
later go over the simulation to point
out areas for improvement the benefits
of this program are clear if you ask
Julie senior graduate admissions officer
whose own husband actually graduated
from the program in 2004 we are
consistently above national and state
average in our in clicks pass rates and
while the State Board of Nursing does
not divide our BSN graduates between our
traditional graduates and our
accelerated graduates we
and what we see is the trend that our
Excel graduates tend to do better on the
NCLEX than our traditional students do
one of the reasons we think that is is
because of the condensed pace of the
program a vast majority of our graduates
actually have gone on to critical care
which has led to acute care nurse
practitioner masters and doctoral
programs following ours and multiple
students going into nurse anesthetist
program which is a big draw many
graduates end up becoming acute care
nurse practitioners nurse anesthetist
and administrators they go on to work in
surgery emergency rooms Pediatrics
women's health and more aside from the
professional aspect there exists a great
sense of community within this program
the majority of classrooms for the
accelerated students are in one building
which becomes a home away from home for
most students they have computer labs
and lounge rooms complete with
refrigerators and microwaves and of
course the students have to make time to
have a little fun so it's a program that
we're very proud of I'm actually really
enjoying the experience I'm learning a
lot it's very rewarding actually so now
you have a better understanding of what
we're all about and what we have to
offer we're very excited about this
program and hope you are as well if you
have any questions please don't hesitate
to contact us thanks for checking us out
and we hope to see you on campus someday